Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends. Dear Dharma friends, this
part of our chanting is the
second part of the parable of the moon. In the
previous part, the Buddha praised Kasyapa as
worthy to enter people's homes, that is, to
enter the homes of Buddhists and ordinary people to
beg for alms. In this part, the Buddha
praised and instructed the monks to learn from Kasyapa, who is
worthy of being a pure preacher of the Dharma.
Here, the Buddha taught:
If a monk has such a pure
heart, and someone has pure faith in him, he
will receive offerings of
clothing, bedding, and medicine from them, and then
he will preach the Dharma to them.
Hearing someone say that is called impure
preaching; that is, if
someone loves the
preacher and
knows that after preaching, they will receive
offerings of things they
like, then the Buddha taught that is impure preaching. The
Buddha taught that pure preaching is like
this: if a monk preaches for the sake of others, and has
pure faith...  Thinking thus, the Buddha
manifests this true Dharma, and all defilements
do not wait for the season; in this very body,
according to their own enlightenment, they will
directly reach Nirvana. Meanwhile, sentient beings are
immersed in old age, sickness, death, sorrow, grief, and suffering.
Those sentient beings who hear the true Dharma and
benefit from its meaning will forever be at
peace. Because of this true Dharma, they use a
mind of loving-kindness, compassion, and a mind that desires the
true Dharma to remain in the world for a long time.
This is called pure preaching.
Because of the true Dharma of the Tathagata, the
mind desires to make the true Dharma remain in the world for a
long time, and
this is for the sake of those who preach. Therefore, monks, you must learn to preach in
this way, according to the true Dharma of the Tathagata, with the
mind that desires the true Dharma to remain
eternally for a long time.
This is called
pure preaching. Dear fellow practitioners,
if your mind desires that everyone
know the true Dharma of the Buddha, and when you speak to them, you tell
them that the
Buddha's Dharma will enable them, if they practice it,
then in this life they will not be
dependent on the season; in
this very body, if they practice it, they will be free from defilements and
will directly reach Nirvana.  The point is
that when a monk
preaches, he must wish for
his listeners to understand the Buddha's teachings
and wish for the Buddha's teachings to endure
in the world for a long time. He
wishes to be the one who
makes the Buddha's teachings endure in the world for a long time.
Such a preacher is called a
Pure Dharma preacher. For Venerable Kasyapa, he
truly practiced the
ascetic practice of Dhuta, and the function and
benefit of Dhuta
is to make the Buddha's teachings endure in the world for a long time.
Therefore, a person who practices Dhuta
is a pure preacher
because they are
practicing the aspiration of
their heart—the aspiration for the
Buddha's teachings to endure in the world for a long time, the
aspiration for all those who have
a connection with them to attain enlightenment,
happiness, and
peace. For a monk who practices Dhuta, their preaching will be pure and prosperous. A
monk who truly
practices Dhuta will achieve this. If they do not truly practice Dhuta, then their preaching will be pure and prosperous.
In practice, the
ascetic path is not like
that. Here, we Buddhists learn in the same way as in the
previous lesson: a mind free from attachment, entanglement, and
defilement. Going to
people's homes to help them, our minds
desire the ascetic path,
we desire to practice the ascetic path, we desire the
Buddha's teachings to endure in the world for a long time.
Because of that desire, when
we speak, we speak with the
hope that they will understand the Buddha's teachings, that the
Buddha's teachings will last in the world. In this way,
we are also called people who encourage
others with a pure mind.
But what is impure? If
our minds are attached, entangled, and defiled, then
naturally, when we speak, we
only want them to focus on us, we only want to
connect with them. We want to
benefit from them, not because of the
Dharma, not because we want them to
penetrate the Dharma, not because we want the
Buddha's teachings to endure in
the
world for a long time. So, in today's meditation session,
let's reflect on how,
from the past until now, when helping
someone, when we speak to someone, our minds have been
truly pure.  The
first point is whether we want them to understand the Dharma, the
second is whether we want them to practice the Dharma, and the third is whether we want the Buddha Dharma to endure
in the world for a long time. The fourth point
is whether our mind is pure
when we speak, when we encourage,
or whether our mind wants them to
know we are superior, whether our mind is
oppressive, unequal,
and relies on power and authority—
that is, our mind is not pure,
not in those other states of mind.
Therefore, when we contemplate in this way,
we will see whether
our behavior towards
others truly demonstrates that we have used sufficient
means to help others
understand the Buddha Dharma, to wish for their
enlightenment, and to wish for the Buddha Dharma to remain in the
world. When we practice the Buddha Dharma,
we transform our karma. When we
tell others about the
intentions behind their actions, we want
everyone to practice the Buddha Dharma and
be happy, and we want many
people to know about our transformation
so that they too can transform their karma.
When we go to someone's house, we must tell them about it.  The
Buddha's teachings bring immediate benefits
in the
present moment, regardless of
weather or any
other factors. Through our own practice, we
can transform our karma. Therefore, we
contemplate and examine our minds to see if we
have any
obstacles in our
desire for
others to attain enlightenment and to diligently practice the Buddha's teachings. We examine whether
we possess
these obstacles and offer
ways to communicate
our own transformation and the
transformation of others' karma, so that more
people may come to know the Buddha's teachings. This is
the purpose of today's meditation session: to overcome our ego, to become pure in our speech and in our encouragement. Today's meditation is focused on this: May all fellow practitioners be diligent.
Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni.
[Music]